# RTDS Dose and Fractionation dashboards

Jack test.

The extract script in this repo creates an extract of data from the RTDS
dataset. The unaggregated extract is used to create the internal dose
and fractionation dashboard. The aggregation script aggregates the
extract for use in the public facing dose and fractionation dashboard.

## Public Dose and Fractionation dashboard

<https://digital.nhs.uk/ndrs/data/data-outputs/cancer-data-hub/radiotherapy-dose-and-fractionation>

### Introduction

The Radiotherapy dose and fractionation dashboard reports radiotherapy
data from all NHS radiotherapy centres. The dashboard presents a count
of radiotherapy activity from January 2019 and can be viewed at England,
Cancer Alliance, and Integrated Care Board level.

The dashboard allows data breakdowns on tumour and treatment
characteristics as well as patient demographics:

#### Tumour and treatment characteristics

Tumour group

Treatment intent

Fractionation category

Dose and fractionation schedules

#### Patient demographics

Age group

Gender

Deprivation

Ethnicity

### Acknowledgement 

This work uses data that has been provided by patients and collected by
the NHS as part of their care and support. The data are collated,
maintained and quality assured by the National Disease Registration
Service, which is part of NHS England.

### Purpose 

The intended audience is anyone with an interest in the delivery of
radiotherapy. The Information presented in the dashboard can also
support the planning and commissioning of cancer services. The data may
also highlight areas of particular concern or gaps in data submissions.
The dashboard will be updated monthly.

### Radiotherapy (RTDS) data set 

The RTDS dataset is a population-based resource of radiotherapy activity
reported routinely by NHS radiotherapy centres. Data are collected on
radiotherapy treatments of adults and paediatric patients, delivered in
secondary care with the intention of improving survival, delaying future
cancer progression or development, and improving disease-free or
progression free survival.

For more information on the RTDS dataset, please see the Data Resource
Profile paper
<https://bmjopen.bmj.com/content/bmjopen/13/6/e070699.full.pdf?with-ds=yes>

Find out more about the RTDS data set
<https://digital.nhs.uk/ndrs/data/data-sets/rtds>

Feedback and support - The tool is produced by the National Disease
Registration Service (NDRS). Please send any feedback or queries to
[ndrs.datasets\@nhs.net](mailto:ndrs.datasets@nhs.net){.email}

Please do not include sensitive or patient identifiable information.

## Link to SOP

This is for NDRS internal use only

<https://nhsd-confluence.digital.nhs.uk/display/NDRSA/CANCER+QUA+002%3A+RTDS+Dose+and+fractionation+dashboard>

## Contact info

ndrsenquiries\@nhs.net
